.\" Copyright 2012 Chris Taylor
.\"
.\" This file is part of caatinga.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with caatinga.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Man page for the caat program
.\"
.TH caat 1 "June 14 2012" 2.0 caat


.SH NAME
.B caat
\- create a full system backup.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caat
[options]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B caat
is a backup program used for making full system backups.  Each time a backup is
performed, a new snapshot of the file system is created.  This creates a history
of all files on your system allowing you to restore files from any point in
time.
.B caat
uses hard links when creating snapshots.  As a result, each backup takes a
minimal amount of disk space and time to execute.  This efficiency allows
backups to be ran frequently in a command scheduler to insure current data is
always backed up.

Each backup that's made is organized by the systems host name.  This allows more
than one system to use the same backup device.  Files that are backed up can be
viewed, restored or deleted using the
.BR lscaat (1)
tool.
.B caat
also uses an external configuration file called
.BR caatinga.conf (5)
which includes all information needed to perform a system backup.  This eliminates
the need to remember numerous cryptic command options to backup your system, simply
run
.B caat
and it does it's job.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-b " location, " \-\-backup\-location =<location>
Backup location to use.  This will override the setting in caatinga.conf.
.TP
.BR \-\-clean
Manually remove backups marked for deletion.
.TP
.BR \-c " file, " \-\-config =<file>
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delete\-oldest
Delete the oldest backup for this system.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-register\-backup
Register the backup location as a backup device.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays help message.
.TP
.BR \-n " hostname, " \-\-hostname =<hostname>
Use this hostname instead of what is defined for the local system.
.TP
.BR \-r " path, " \-\-root =<path>
Use this as the root directory to be backed up.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.  Display backup activity.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Displays version information and exits.


.SH FILES
.I /etc/caatinga/caatinga.conf
.RS
The configuration file used by
.B caat
and
.B lscaat.
See
.BR caatinga.conf (5)
for further details.


.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Register the backup location in
.BR caatinga.conf (5)
as a backup device.
.RS
.P
.B caat
\-\-register\-backup
.RE

.P
Create a backup of the current system.
.RS
.P
.B caat
.RE

.P
Create a backup of the current system using an alternate backup device.
.RS
.P
.B caat
\-\-backup\-location=/mnt/sdg1
.RE

.P
Create a backup of another file system specifying an alternate host name.
.RS
.P
.B caat
\-\-root=/mnt/sdb1 \-\-hostname=casper
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Taylor <headmastersquall at gmail dot com>


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lscaat (1)
.BR caatinga.conf (5)