.\" Copyright 2014 Chris Taylor
.\"
.\" This file is part of caatinga.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with caatinga.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Man page for the caatinga.conf configuration file
.\"
.TH caatinga.conf 5 "June 12 2013" caat "File Formats"


.SH NAME
caatinga.conf \- configuration file for the
.B caat
and
.B lscaat
backup and restore programs.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B caatinga.conf


.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B caatinga.conf
contains configuration options for the
.B caat
and
.B lscaat
backup and restore programs.  These options control where the backups are to be
stored, as well as provide a degree of control over what files get backed up.

.B root
.RS
The root directory of the system that is going to be backed up.
.RE

.B backup_location
.RS
The mount point of the backup device where the backups will be written to.
.RE

.B hostname
.RS
A hostname to be used instead of the local systems hostname. 
.RE

.B backup_group
.RS
Group name that backups are owned by.  Be sure to add users to this group
that you want to grant access to the backup drive.  This option should also
be set prior to registering a backup device to insure proper ownership is set.
.RE

.B max_file_size
.RS
Do not backup files larger than this value.  Size is in MB.
.RE

.B ignore
.RS
Do not backup these files or directories.  This entry can appear more than once
in the file and may also contain glob expressions.
.RE

.B drive_percentage
.RS
How full must the backup drive get before old backups start to be deleted.
.RE

.B max_images
.RS
The maximum number of backup images to be kept for this host.  Using a value
of 0 allows for an unlimited number of images.
.RE

.B reduce_backups
.RS
Value can be yes or no.  If set to yes the backups will automatically be
reduced to a daily frequency for 31 days, then reduced to weekly.
.RE

.B pre_backup_hooks
.RS
Directory of hook scripts to be executed prior to performing a backup.
.RE

.B post_backup_hooks
.RS
Directory of hook scripts to be executed after a backup has performed.
.RE

.B pre_restore_hooks
.RS
Directory of hook scripts to be executed prior to performing a restore
operation.
.RE

.B post_restore_hooks
.RS
Directory of hook scripts to be executed after a restore operation has been
performed.
.RE

Note:  Executable files found in the hooks directories will be executed in
alphabetical order.  These scripts can be useful to execute actions that need
to be performed prior to and after a backup/restore operation occurs.  For
example, an lvm snapshot may need to be created and destroyed to create a
backup on a frozen file system.  An SQL dump needs to run before running in
order to include a dump file in the backup.  The backup destination may need
to be mounted for backup and restore operations and unmounted when the work is
done.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/caatinga/caatinga.conf


.SH AUTHOR
Chris Taylor <headmastersquall at gmail dot com>


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lscaat (1)
.BR caat (1)
