.\" Copyright 2013 Chris Taylor
.\"
.\" This file is part of caatinga.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Caatinga is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with caatinga.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Man page for the lscaat program
.\"
.TH lscaat 1 "June 13 2012" 2.0 lscaat


.SH NAME
.B lscaat
\- restore program for the caat backup program.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lscaat
<subcommand> [options]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lscaat
is a powerful utility for listing and restoring items that have
been backed up using the
.B caat
backup tool.  Subcommands are available to provide status information
regarding the state of files on your local file system as well as the
status of your backup drive.  The subcommands available are easy to use and
remember since they are composed in a natural way (see EXAMPLES).


.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Subcommands"
.P
.B changes
\- Show changes in this directory compared to the last backup made
.P
.B diff
\- Show the difference between a local file and a backed up version
.P
.B info
\- Display information about the backup device
.P
.BR list " (" ls )
\- List backed up items from the current directory
.P
.BR remove " (" rm )
\- Delete items from the backup drive
.P
.B restore
\- Restore items from a backup
.P
Run
.RB ` lscaat
help
.RB [ subcommand ]'
for details and usage on individual subcommands.

.SS Optional Command Options
.TP
.BR \-b " location, " \-\-backup\-location =<location>
Backup location to use.  This will override the setting in caatinga.conf.
.TP
.BR \-c " file, " \-\-config =<file>
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-n " hostname, " \-\-hostname =<hostname>
Use this hostname instead of what is defined for the local system.
.TP
.BR \-r " path, " \-\-root =<path>
Use this as the root directory to be backed up.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Displays version information and exits.


.SH FILES
.I /etc/caatinga/caatinga.conf
.RS
The configuration file used by
.B caat
and
.B lscaat.
See
.BR caatinga.conf (5)
for further details.


.SH EXAMPLES
.P
List all files that have been backed up from the current working directory
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
list
.RE

.P
List all files from a specific backup that have been backed up from the current
working directory
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
list from backup 12
.RE

.P
List all .py files from a specific backup that have been backed up from the
current working directory
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
list "*.py" from backup 14
.RE

.P
Restore the file phonebook.txt from the most recent backup to the current
working directory
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
restore phonebook.txt
.RE

.P
Restore the file phonebook.txt from backup 10 as the file name of
myphonebook.txt to the current working directory
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
restore phonebook.txt from backup 10 as myphonebook.txt
.RE

.P
Remove the file phonebook.txt from backup 8
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
remove phonebook.txt from backup 8
.RE

.P
Remove all files beginning with phonebook.txt from all backups
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
remove "phonebook.txt*" from all
.RE

.P
Show the difference between the file phonebook.txt and the version from the
last backup
.RS
.P
.B lscaat
diff phonebook.txt
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Taylor <headmastersquall at gmail dot com>


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR caat (1)
.BR caatinga.conf (5)
